# Google Cloud Platform
Cloud platforms are extremely common in the modern software ecosystem. Amazon started AWS in 2006 with the message queueing service SQS. It has since become one of Amazon's most profitable businesses. Google entered the arena in 2008 with GCP App Engine. These platforms are very powerful and very efficent, far more efficent than everyone running their own data centers and infrastructure. They are also quite complex, and the certificates held by engineers for these platforms are some of the most valuable certificates tech professionals can persue.

## Integration & Opinionation
As these platforms have grown, and more services have been added over time, the whole system becomes quite complex. This is why certified professionals are so in-demand. These services are designed to integrate with other services on the platform, making it very convienent for you to use the platform for all of your needs. This also makes it very difficult to deviate from the prescribed way of doing things. This also means that, while offering extremely similar solutions, utilizing different platforms or migrating from one to another can be extremely challenging. Starting a large project on GCP makes it very likely to stay on GCP for the entire lifecycle.

## Scalability
One of the most important features of these platforms, and very much so for the GCP platform, is scalability. Resources are designed to scale up and down as needed. As these platforms have grown their customer base, they are handling more and more of the internets traffic. Luckily there are a finite amount of users out there and as they move from one service to another (say from working during the day to watching netflix in the evening) the necessary resources shrink in one area and grow in another. Instead of Netflix having their data centers idle much of the day, they make use of cloud platforms. As user behavior shifts, the resources to support those behaviors shift as well. This also means you don't pay for unused resources. As your resources scale up to support more traffic, your bill goes up as well. When your traffic shrinks, your resources scale down and your bill shrinks.

