# A08:2021 – Software and Data Integrity Failures
A08 refers to the integrity of software and data. Is this software actually the software you want from the actual source, or might someone have tampered with it? Are you sure the update mechanism is secure and no bad actors can distribute their own updates? Can attackers see and modify the data we are transmitting between source and destination? 

As an example, consider the SolarWinds Orion attack from 2020. This was a supply chain attack where bad actors were able to target the Orion software from SolarWinds in order to gain access to their customers' data. They gained access and began injecting malicious code as early as 2019. When the customers got updated Orion software, it contained a backdoor, granting the hackers access. If they had a process of checking a hash or signature for the software they downloaded against one generated by SolarWinds they might have noticed the problem before it exposed their orginizations to attack.

## How to Prevent
 - Use digital signatures or similar mechanisms to verify software and data is from the expected source and is unaltered
 - Ensure dependency managers like Maven and NPM are accessing trusted repositories. Consider hosting your own vetted repositories for your orginization, like jFrog.
 - Implement a review process for dependencies, and configuration changes to minimize risk
 - Ensure your CI/CD pipeline is properly secured to ensure the integrity of the artifacts it outputs
 - Use signing and encryption to make sure data is safe and to detect tampering or replay


Read more at [owasp.org](https://owasp.org/Top10/A08_2021-Software_and_Data_Integrity_Failures/)